



Artistic endeavour an investigation on human nature relation[s]: 
Leave No Stone Unturned   

Elmas Deniz [Visual Artist]

Elmas Deniz’s concept-driven works investigate the intersections and points of entanglement between economics and nature. She further focuses on the human-nature relationship, the idea of nature throughout history, and ecological concerns. The central concepts in her practice are the capitalism-led deterioration of nature, and our perception of it, as well as the related consumerist culture. She questions how the economic system continuously reshapes our perception through subtle but consistent manipulations. She sheds light on the illusional distribution of value. She investigates various modes of relations with non-human species. Currently she is thinking on loss, extinctions and geo-history.  

She will talk around her practice spanning throughout almost two decades. Alongside introducing her selected artworks, she will also talk about how artistic research allows her to combine unlikely themes situations and notions about nature, as pursuing historic research in a subjective-artistic-critical way.

Is it possible to consider artworks in the form of thought-works rendered as environmental philosophy? Her thought anchors such as 'attention', 'politics of size', 'visibility-inclusion' "law making", "human institutions" will be unfolded during the talk. 

Her previous works in two Istanbul biennales will be starting point of the talk, 16th Istanbul Biennial, curated by Nicolas Bourriaud (2019) her works "Lost Waters" and "History of a particular Nameless Creek" 2019 and Under the Panorama from the 14th Istanbul Biennale where you can see information below. 

Lost Waters, 2019 
History of a particular Nameless Creek, 2019 mixed media 
"Elmas Deniz calls attention to ecological changes occurring with capitalism and the age of the Anthropocene. She examines the changing of the landscape and the deterioration of the nature by humankind. Deniz is showing two works about disappeared flows of water. The first one is a three-dimensional topographic relief of Istanbul, spanning the area from Sisli to Taksim Square. On this relief, lost rivers and creeks are marked on the current roads. Deniz’s other piece centres on a creek near which she grew up, near Bergama. This wall installation, while focusing on the small and insignificant, calls attention to natural and human-caused environmental transformations and extinctions." Talk will depart from here and will take a little journey stopping several works."   
   
Under the Panorama, 2012 [2015], Photo, sand, plastic bag.
"Her piece on display titled Under the Panorama (2012) is alluding to the problem of global waste that is becoming ever more relevant in our time, the work originates from the artist’s realisation during a stroll along the Bosphorus that the amount of manmade material within the sand far exceeds the amount of natural stones. Beautiful views can be deceptive due to the human tendency to ignore what is out of sight, hidden and not easily recognisable. The work illustrates this fact by rendering the invisible visible, and showing us what is at the bottom of the sea: garbage, indicated by sand and a nylon bin liner. This is where all consumption ends up, slowly suffocating us by filling up the sea, a breath of fresh air in a metropolis bustling with endless construction."



vvvvvvvvv

"Lost waters, History of a nameless creek, Under the panorama"
Artistic endavour an investigation on human nature relations: leave no stone unturned   
"water, loss, animals, plants, law, language, history, subject"
how?: 
"media, approach, style"



Elmas Deniz [Visual Artist]


Elmas Deniz’s concept-driven works investigate the intersections and points of entanglement between economics and nature. She further focuses on the human-nature relationship, the idea of nature throughout history, and ecological concerns. The central concepts in her practice are the capitalism-led deterioration of nature, and our perception of it, as well as the related consumerist culture. She questions how the economic system continuously reshapes our perception through subtle but consistent manipulations. She sheds light on the illusional distribution of value. She investigates various modes of relations with non-human species inorder to understand and therefore to find other possibilities of different relation with nature.Currently she is thinking on loss, extinctions, geo-history.  

She will talk around her practice spanning throughout almost two decades. Alongside her selected works she will also talk on how artistic research allows her to combine unlikely themes situations and notions about nature, as pursuing historic research in subjective artistic critical. In her talk she will include her approach to research, methodologies. Is it possible to consider artworks in the form of thought-works rendered as environmental philosophy.Her tought anchors such as 'attention', 'politics of size', 'visibility-inclusion' "law making", "human institutions" will be unfolded during the talk. 

Her previous works in two istanbul biennales will be starting point of the talk, 16th Istanbul Biennial, curated by Nicolas Bourriaud (2019) her works "Lost Waters" and "History of a particular Nameless Creek" 2019 and Under the Panorama from the 14th Istanbul Bienale you can see information below. 

--- 

History of a particular Nameless Creek, 2019
"Elmas Deniz calls attention to ecological changes occurring with capitalism and the age of the Anthropocene. She examines the changing of the landscape and the deterioration of the nature by humankind. Deniz is showing two works about disappeared flows of water. The first one is a three-dimensional topographic relief of Istanbul, spanning the area from Sisli to Taksim Square. On this relief, lost rivers and creeks are marked on the current roads. Deniz’s other piece centres on a creek near which she grew up, near Bergama. This wall installation, while focusing on the small and insignificant, calls attention to natural and human-caused environmental transformations and extinctions." Talk will depart from here and will take a little journey stopping several works."   
   

Under the Panorama, 2012, Photo, sand, plastic bag.
"Her piece on display titled Under the Panorama (2012) is alluding to the problem of global waste that is becoming ever more relevant in our time, the work originates from the artist’s realisation during a stroll along the Bosphorus that the amount of manmade material within the sand far exceeds the amount of natural stones. Beautiful views can be deceptive due to the human tendency to ignore what is out of sight, hidden and not easily recognisable. The work illustrates this fact by rendering the invisible visible, and showing us what is at the bottom of the sea: garbage, indicated by sand and a nylon bin liner. This is where all consumption ends up, slowly suffocating us by filling up the sea, a breath of fresh air in a metropolis bustling with endless construction.""

---

Elmas Deniz (1981, Bergama, Turkey) lives and works in Istanbul, Turkey. 
Her works have been included in the 16th Istanbul Biennial, curated by Nicolas Bourriaud (2019); the 14th Istanbul Biennial, drafted by Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev (2015); Colomboscope, Colombo, Sri Lanka (2017); the 5th Gyumri Biennial in Yerevan, Armenia (2006). Her works have been shown at Pera Museum, Istanbu;(2020) MOCAK–Museum of Contemporary Art in Krakow, Poland (2019); Arter, Istanbul (2019); Istanbul Museum of Modern Art (2016); Musée de la Chasse et de la Nature, Paris (2016); DEPO, Istanbul (2016); SALT, Istanbul (2015); SECESSION, Museumsquartier, Vienna (2013); La Friche Belle de Mai, Marseille (2010); Montehermoso, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain (2009); and Platform Garanti CAC, Istanbul (2005). Her most recent solo exhibition has been ‘Three Hues of Water’ (2019) at Zilberman, Istanbul. She is also one of the co-founders of K2 Contemporary Art Center in Izmir, Turkey. She was awarded IASPIS Artist Grand (2014) ; Berlin Goethe Institute Cultural Grand (2007), and has been a resident at Pistoletto Foundation IT (2011); Sextant e Plus La Friche Belle de Mai, Marseilles, FR (2009); DIVA Copenhagen, DK (2008) and Vassl, Karachi, PK (2006), AIWA Lebanon(2005). Elmas Deniz graduated from Dokuz Eylul University, Department of Painting (2003) and Izmir Anatolian High School of Fine Arts(1998) www.elmasdeniz.com



"Lost waters, History of a creek and Under the panorama"
"Lost Waters, History of a nameless creek, Flying plants,dogs and elephants"
"artist's complex pursuit of human nature relations: water, loss, animals, plants, law, language, history, subject"
"Under the panorama, above the lost waters"
""

Elmas Deniz [Visual Artist]


Elmas Deniz’s concept-driven works investigate the intersections and points of entanglement between economics and nature. She further focuses on the human-nature relationship, the idea of nature throughout history, and ecological concerns. The central concepts in her practice are the capitalism-led deterioration of nature, and our perception of it, as well as the related consumerist culture. She questions how the economic system continuously reshapes our perception through subtle but consistent manipulations. She sheds light on the illusional distribution of value. She is interested in investigating various modes of relations with non-human species, which aims to understand and therefore to find other possibilities of different relation with nature. She uses irony and deadly serious approach and looking back to history or critical reading of human instutituons. Currently she is thinking on loss, extinctions, and geo-history as a method.  

She will talk around her practice spanning throughout almost two decades. How artistic research perspective allows her to combine unlikely themes situations and notions about nature. In her talk she will include her approach to research, methodologies. Is it possible to consider artworks in the form of thought-works rendered as philosophy. 

Her tought anchors such as 'attention', 'politics of size', 'visibility-inclusion' and "law making", "human institutions" will be unfolded during the talk. Her previous works in two istanbul biennales will be starting point of the talk, 16th Istanbul Biennial, curated by Nicolas Bourriaud (2019) her works "Lost Waters" and "History of a particular Nameless Creek" 2019

"Elmas Deniz calls attention to ecological changes occurring with capitalism and the age of the Anthropocene. She examines the changing of the landscape and the deterioration of the nature by humankind. Deniz is showing two works about disappeared flows of water. The first one is a three-dimensional topographic relief of Istanbul, spanning the area from Sisli to Taksim Square. On this relief, lost rivers and creeks are marked on the current roads. Deniz’s other piece centres on a creek near which she grew up, near Bergama. This wall installation, while focusing on the small and insignificant, calls attention to natural and human-caused environmental transformations and extinctions." Talk will depart from here and will take a little journey stopping several works."   
   

Under the Panorama, 2012, Photo, sand, plastic bag.
Her piece on display titled Under the Panorama (2012) is alluding to the problem of global waste that is becoming ever more relevant in our time, the work originates from the artist’s realisation during a stroll along the Bosphorus that the amount of manmade material within the sand far exceeds the amount of natural stones. Beautiful views can be deceptive due to the human tendency to ignore what is out of sight, hidden and not easily recognisable. The work illustrates this fact by rendering the invisible visible, and showing us what is at the bottom of the sea: garbage, indicated by sand and a nylon bin liner. This is where all consumption ends up, slowly suffocating us by filling up the sea, a breath of fresh air in a metropolis bustling with endless construction.


Elmas Deniz (1981, Bergama, Turkey) lives and works in Istanbul, Turkey. 
Her works have been included in the 16th Istanbul Biennial, curated by Nicolas Bourriaud (2019); the 14th Istanbul Biennial, drafted by Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev (2015); Colomboscope, Colombo, Sri Lanka (2017); the 5th Gyumri Biennial in Yerevan, Armenia (2006). Her works have been shown at Pera Museum, Istanbu;(2020) MOCAK–Museum of Contemporary Art in Krakow, Poland (2019); Arter, Istanbul (2019); Istanbul Museum of Modern Art (2016); Musée de la Chasse et de la Nature, Paris (2016); DEPO, Istanbul (2016); SALT, Istanbul (2015); SECESSION, Museumsquartier, Vienna (2013); La Friche Belle de Mai, Marseille (2010); Montehermoso, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain (2009); and Platform Garanti CAC, Istanbul (2005). Her most recent solo exhibition has been ‘Three Hues of Water’ (2019) at Zilberman, Istanbul. She is also one of the co-founders of K2 Contemporary Art Center in Izmir, Turkey. She was awarded IASPIS Artist Grand (2014) ; Berlin Goethe Institute Cultural Grand (2007), and has been a resident at Pistoletto Foundation IT (2011); Sextant e Plus La Friche Belle de Mai, Marseilles, FR (2009); DIVA Copenhagen, DK (2008) and Vassl, Karachi, PK (2006), AIWA Lebanon(2005). Elmas Deniz graduated from Dokuz Eylul University, Department of Painting (2003) and Izmir Anatolian High School of Fine Arts(1998) www.elmasdeniz.com

xxx

Elmas Deniz’s concept-driven works 

investigate the intersections and points of entanglement between economics and nature. 

the human-nature relationship
the idea of nature throughout history
ecological concerns. 
the capitalism-led deterioration of nature, and our perception of it, as well as the related consumerist culture. 
She questions how the economic system continuously reshapes our perception through subtle but consistent manipulations.
She sheds light on the illusional distribution of value. 
relations with non-human species, 

 to understand and therefore to find other possibilities of different relation with nature. 

 She uses irony and deadly serious approach and looking back to history or critical reading of human instutituons. Currently she is thinking on loss, extinctions, and geo-history
